In an effort to better respond to users' needs, Eurostat publishes experimental statistics on the related Eurostat website based on the EuroGroups Register (EGR) data. The EGR is central statistical business register of Eurostat and the EU and European Free Trade Association (EFTA) countries' statistical authorities. The EGR is part of the EU statistical infrastructure and has been built up to better capture globalisation effects as well as for improving the consistency of national data on enterprise groups. 

The _SQL_ code shared here was used to produce the tables and graphics of the _Statistics Explained_ publication on the [*Structure of multinational enterprise groups in the EU*](https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/statistics-explained/index.php?title=Structure_of_multinational_enterprise_groups_in_the_EU). This article gives an overview of the structure of multinational enterprise groups in the EU in 2016.

Every single table/figure presented in the article can be generated by running the corresponding source file and using microdata from the EGR, _e.g._ the _SQL_ source code in the file [_egr_figure4.sql_](egr_figure4.sql) will enable you to reproduce the [figure #4](https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/statistics-explained/index.php?title=File:Top_5_EU_partner_countries_in_which_the_groups_of_country_have_the_highest_share_of_employment_in_2016.png) of the article.

The EGR is a very rich data source. Eurostat and the NSIs are continuously working to improve its quality. Having sufficient quality level in the future, the EGR can be the source of very relevant and valuable European official statistics.
